Faculty Office Hours: either.
Christian Gover: Professor how are you.
Faculty Office Hours: doing all right i'm just grateful that our office hours don't interfere with the game tonight.
Christian Gover: Oh yeah yeah that's I wanted you to go all the way, but now unfortunately they didn't so.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah I wasn't too sure about how Texas, and then people would feel about you ah, but I guess it's all good huh.
Christian Gover: yeah yeah well my case is interesting, I went to ut Austin for my undergrad so.
Christian Gover: So my capstones tomorrow.
Faculty Office Hours: i'll be a relief to get that done wanna.
yeah.
Faculty Office Hours: You got any specific questions or just going to kind of lurk.
Christian Gover: yeah yeah I do I guess question five stop me, so I wasn't too sure about that one.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, so which part of that the the kind of the the changes and producing the results are the explaining part we're both.
Christian Gover: I think both probably i'm not sure if i'm doing it correctly honestly I, I guess, I did set set the constraint to zero.
Christian Gover: yeah I guess the coefficients are supposed to be the same as the.
Faculty Office Hours: What why don't you show me what you've done.
Christian Gover: Oh okay all right, let me share.
Christian Gover: Okay um yeah let me open up SAS here yeah.
Christian Gover: So I mean do we want to talk about the question first maybe how I interpreted it.
Faculty Office Hours: I will show me what you.
Christian Gover: Just the output.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah.
Christian Gover: All right, let me run this.
Faculty Office Hours: I was thinking more of the code, but we can.
Christian Gover: yeah yeah.
Christian Gover: So I mean I think what what it wants, is to make sure that the dual matches with some kind of function that I specify in my code.
Christian Gover: Right.
Faculty Office Hours: So will.
Faculty Office Hours: I code, so I wanted to verify that the that the dual.
Faculty Office Hours: values that you print are the same as the ones in the homework assignment, the ones that are listed there.
Faculty Office Hours: was a tape there's a table in in the homework assignment.
Faculty Office Hours: In the in the kind of preamble part.
Faculty Office Hours: there's that table yeah and so, basically, the first part is yours verifying that those are the same values.
Christian Gover: All these right here.
Christian Gover: hmm let's see.
Christian Gover: Is that what they look like.
Faculty Office Hours: look pretty much like that you could check one or two, probably as good enough.
Christian Gover: For this.
Faculty Office Hours: very week.
Christian Gover: 704370 4.494 week.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah looks like you're a winner here.
Faculty Office Hours: So what you're doing is you're kind of.
Faculty Office Hours: That they've done they've done the calculations, you could do the same calculations yourself and.
Faculty Office Hours: And so I mean it's it's going to be the the revenue less the costs less the.
Faculty Office Hours: fixed costs.
Faculty Office Hours: So you can do the calculation yourself.
Faculty Office Hours: Basically, just verifying that what what you have is correct, so let's see what So what is it that you that you're calculating they're.
Christian Gover: selling price minus fixed costs minus all the.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, so see you realize that you can.
Faculty Office Hours: there's a way to express that using a son.
Christian Gover: Okay, I didn't know that.
Faculty Office Hours: So the whole the whole advantage, the sum is that you don't have to write out a lot of terms like that.
Christian Gover: yeah.
Faculty Office Hours: You could you could write that out as.
Faculty Office Hours: Some.
Christian Gover: Maybe I.
Faculty Office Hours: heard so let's see what exactly is that your listing it looks like you're listing resources right.
Christian Gover: Right, the required I guess it's just, you have the resources right.
Faculty Office Hours: The the purple things are all all members of the set of resources, so you could say some over our and resources and then you could just say cost of our time is required of P calm are.
Christian Gover: Okay.
Faculty Office Hours: So we've got if you if you just move up a couple of lines you probably got some expressions like that and they're already in different places.
Christian Gover: In ministry here yeah.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah yeah so that's The total cost.
Christian Gover: All right, i'll try that out, then.
Faculty Office Hours: Instead of since it looks like the first part you got you verified that they're the same same numbers, as there are in the table.
Faculty Office Hours: Right um but then I guess the other part of it is, is why.
Christian Gover: yeah that's I wasn't too sure I mean I was looking at the video, and I did see you know this kind of formula here for dual dual values.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, so let's let's look at that and think about it so So what is the what is the constraint limit that you would be increasing by one.
Faculty Office Hours: Go back into your code.
Christian Gover: I think you're looking at net profit over demand right.
Faculty Office Hours: Well, net profit over let's just look at the constraints.
Faculty Office Hours: So that show me the constraints that you're printing the dual values of in your code.
Christian Gover: yeah let me.
Christian Gover: Strange strains here.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, so so.
Faculty Office Hours: The limit right now is zero right.
Christian Gover: Right.
Faculty Office Hours: The What would it mean if you change the limit to one.
Christian Gover: well.
Faculty Office Hours: What would that allow you to do for just one of the products.
Christian Gover: If I increase the limit to one.
Christian Gover: I guess I could just produced one I guess.
Faculty Office Hours: One other so So if you if you produce one.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah What would the What would the What would the changing the objective be from producing one.
Christian Gover: objective.
Christian Gover: So.
Christian Gover: Much.
Christian Gover: It but yeah I mean so like you're saying, for all of these products right if you increase it to wine.
Christian Gover: right that would go.
Christian Gover: I mean I don't think that the man would go up just because you increase the.
Faculty Office Hours: I mean you're not training you're not touching demand it's just a question of So if you produce one batch of berry wheat mm hmm.
Faculty Office Hours: How would how much, would you expect the net profit to increase.
Faculty Office Hours: could be, what is your table, perhaps.
Christian Gover: yeah I guess it would be this.
Christian Gover: 34.
Faculty Office Hours: And why.
Christian Gover: Is it that the dual value.
Faculty Office Hours: Well, not so much that it's the dual value look over one column, where you do your calculations, you get the same number right.
Faculty Office Hours: how'd you calculate that.
Christian Gover: Just yeah using the.
Christian Gover: The revenue minus the cost right.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, so it's basically the objective function coefficient right.
Christian Gover: yeah.
Faculty Office Hours: And, and that and that objective function coefficient tells you.
Faculty Office Hours: How much.
Faculty Office Hours: One batch of very weak contributes to the net profit right.
Christian Gover: yeah.
Faculty Office Hours: So I mean I that that's really that's that's all i'm looking for is is just that he realized that.
Faculty Office Hours: Changing the limit by one means you can produce one unit and.
Faculty Office Hours: The thing that you calculated tells you how how much contributes that profit.
Christian Gover: Okay yeah cuz I wasn't sure if if we had to do that because I was thinking it we're just changing it I didn't think we were setting the increasing it by one in here but.
Christian Gover: yeah.
Faculty Office Hours: So I think I think I think you're I think you pretty well got it there okay.
Christian Gover: Alright, that sounds good.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah just a question of kind of trend turn it to put the trying to apply the thing in the box to your to this specific case and kind of putting it into words that that's just that's all i'm looking for.
Christian Gover: Okay, good.
Christian Gover: Pretty straightforward, thank you.
Faculty Office Hours: Thank you for sharing now.
Faculty Office Hours: anybody else have a question.
Faculty Office Hours: I suspect that's why you're here.
Stephanie Pollock: yeah I do I realized, I was off mute the whole time.
Stephanie Pollock: I had a question about number two.
When.
Stephanie Pollock: when trying to increase the.
Stephanie Pollock: Increasing the Labor the brewing lever over time to $27 an hour.
Stephanie Pollock: And to use the.
Stephanie Pollock: The furniture example, but I just I don't know if i'm missing something in my code or what's going on, oh so.
Faculty Office Hours: So all you really need to do to answer that question is to know the the dual value.
Okay.
Faculty Office Hours: And so, for the furniture making problem, the dual value was 1.3 what.
Faculty Office Hours: From from your from your results what what is the dual value of brewing Labor.
Stephanie Pollock: Sorry hang on my code suddenly isn't working.
Faculty Office Hours: Are you getting an error.
Stephanie Pollock: yeah, but it was working last night so.
Faculty Office Hours: What what's what is that you want to share.
Stephanie Pollock: yeah i'll share.
Faculty Office Hours: So show the log Where are you getting are you getting an error.
Stephanie Pollock: yeah.
Faculty Office Hours: i'll just show the log just yeah.
Stephanie Pollock: for whatever reason it's.
Faculty Office Hours: Oh so you're doing the thing that I always do, which is somehow you had something highlighted kind of by accident.
Stephanie Pollock: Oh, maybe oh yeah.
Faculty Office Hours: If you just put your cursor somewhere else, then try it again.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah.
Faculty Office Hours: that's kind of annoying but yet does that okay now what.
Faculty Office Hours: Do you from there right.
Stephanie Pollock: Do you have to recreate these libraries, every time you open.
Faculty Office Hours: A not a few check that box that says recreate the library.
Stephanie Pollock: Okay, I didn't that's why.
Stephanie Pollock: All right, give me.
Faculty Office Hours: just looking for extra practice that's good.
Right.
Okay.
Stephanie Pollock: Okay, so bring Labor here 36.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, so so that that number says that if you had more brewing Labor available at the current price, you could increase your objective by that much.
Stephanie Pollock: Okay, I.
Stephanie Pollock: So I thought.
Stephanie Pollock: Exercise one if additional overtime of bring Labor is available for $27 an hour.
Stephanie Pollock: Using additional overtime brain Labor allow them to increase that profit so, then the answer I guess would be yes.
Faculty Office Hours: So, so what what are you comparing that number two, though.
Stephanie Pollock: That 27 to 36.
Faculty Office Hours: That would that would give you the right answer, but that would be the wrong thing to compare.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, so let's think about the the example at the furniture making problem, so the dual value was was pretty small it was 1.3, but what we compared to the 1.3 was not.
Faculty Office Hours: $21 an hour, it was the additional cost.
Faculty Office Hours: Of the overtime Labor which, in that case was seven.
Stephanie Pollock: Okay, so it'd be nine in this case.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah so it's even it's even more attractive.
Stephanie Pollock: yeah okay.
Stephanie Pollock: Okay, great.
Stephanie Pollock: And that was that was my only question.
Faculty Office Hours: So it's the same it's the same setting the numbers are different, and in this case, the conclusion is different, but it's all the same.
Faculty Office Hours: we're comparing the the dual value to.
Faculty Office Hours: To a cost.
Stephanie Pollock: Okay, that makes sense.
Faculty Office Hours: Good one or is that are you.
Stephanie Pollock: that's it for now.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, well, if you.
Faculty Office Hours: If you have questions later in the week just send me an email it's fine.
Stephanie Pollock: Thank you.
mm hmm.
Faculty Office Hours: David looks like you're outside there.
Faculty Office Hours: You know, you know revealing too much by like showing us the type of vegetation in the area where you are or anything, are you.
Purkiss, David: Now I don't think so.
Faculty Office Hours: that's that's a fake right it's just a.
Faculty Office Hours: cardboard cutout.
it's a backdrop.
Faculty Office Hours: What uh what does anyone have a question or.
Purkiss, David: I actually I i've just barely gotten started on and I just wanted to get some insight from what other people were struggling and hopefully I get this done by Thursday.
Okay.
Faculty Office Hours: Jimmy got some more is that that describes the situation to.
Jim Clark: Yet situation, I think I have a handle on or four and I ran out of energy last night and so now i'm going to work with five or six but since it's Monday night i'm probably not going to struggle, this one is I did so.
Jim Clark: silly wish I was just listening to to the chatter and talk to me it sounds like.
Jim Clark: I got I got some validation so then maybe maybe some of the things I do kind of made sense so it's.
Jim Clark: it's getting there it's just having just having to work through the problem.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay anybody else.
Like everybody else's music.
Faculty Office Hours: Yes, you and me, Jim.
Jim Clark: But I think it with that Satan arm you start working on Problem number five.
Jim Clark: But because it because I don't I haven't looked at it enough to even ask the question that i'd have to say i'm stuck on this, I have no.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, I got you.
Jim Clark: But but but I appreciate you willis office hours and and I will I will wait till Thursday morning lunch brother knows that.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay yeah so like you know just if you feel like you're putting too much time into it it's probably do something simple that.
Faculty Office Hours: It will be better just to fire off an email asked question.
Jim Clark: Now, and tomorrow tomorrow did data to really spend a lot of quality time on this too much than then then i'll probably offer a sense of going out before before losing one.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay.
Jim Clark: Very much sure.
Purkiss, David: So doctor I I I did turn in.
Purkiss, David: The last one late.
Purkiss, David: And I started on this one and i'm still struggling i'm going back to the lectures and in going through the PowerPoint presentations again.
Purkiss, David: And i'm I think i'm gaining some some confidence, but I might send you an email and asked asked to to join the session and early in the morning again.
Faculty Office Hours: Sure that's fine OK.
Purkiss, David: OK OK okay i'll work on it for a little bit first and then.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay.
Purkiss, David: I have some questions.
Faculty Office Hours: If no one else has any.
Faculty Office Hours: questions I have a slide that I made for someone who.
Faculty Office Hours: Had a questions to me see if I can find it and share it let's see so that it relates to.
Faculty Office Hours: What we're what we're working on let's see if I can get to it.
None of this looks right that's okay.
Faculty Office Hours: So this is a slide for.
Faculty Office Hours: A second I can just do this only one slide but so a lot of these questions are asking you to predict something.
Faculty Office Hours: Right like so something changes in the model and you're trying to predict what the result is.
Faculty Office Hours: In the objective, so this this slide is one that I did I developed by I would have liked to have put in the last lecture but I didn't.
Faculty Office Hours: So you see that the red graph is the actual behavior of the way the net profit changes as the budget level changes, but if all you know, is the slope.
Faculty Office Hours: At the point where the dotted line comes up and intersects with the function, then what you would do to predict the change is you would use that slogan you to extend it out to the right and the left.
Faculty Office Hours: Because you don't know you know where changes its behavior all you know, is the slope at that point and that's what you use to predict.
Purkiss, David: Net your blue line.
Purkiss, David: Right and so, and so it is tangent to the so that would be a red line under the blue line between the two points.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah there's a red light under there and.
Faculty Office Hours: And the slope of that line is the dual value.
Faculty Office Hours: And that's that's how we can predict the change and we don't know a priori if we're in one of those areas where the prediction is exact which would be in this little interval here.
Faculty Office Hours: Or it overestimates the change which could be somewhere to the right or somewhere to the left, but since we don't know anything about how that function behavior those points.
Faculty Office Hours: This is our prediction and and we figure if it's a small change we're probably safe, but if it's a big change then.
Faculty Office Hours: Even even though that's the best we can do we probably want to be a little cautious about you know, putting all our marbles in that basket because.
Faculty Office Hours: It may not be the right exact answer that's in a couple of places where I said, use the dual values to predict and then modify the model to determine just to see if the prediction is correct.
But.
Jonas Jonas.
Fritz, Joanna: Question on number three.
Fritz, Joanna: trouble getting started on it, so I was wondering if you could give me a little bit of the pointer should I share my screen, or should I just.
Faculty Office Hours: want you can share your screen that's fine.
Okay cool.
Fritz, Joanna: can't get very far can you see my SAS Program.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah so.
Fritz, Joanna: Okay cool yeah so i'm just so I was able to.
Fritz, Joanna: print out the dual values for the demand constraint.
Fritz, Joanna: Okay, right here.
Faculty Office Hours: And so the know in this case we're interested in a specific one of those right.
Fritz, Joanna: Yes, we are interested in the dark ale.
Fritz, Joanna: Which is right here.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, so now, if you think back to the graph I just showed.
Faculty Office Hours: That that value that.
Faculty Office Hours: Is the slope of that blue line.
Faculty Office Hours: And so, in order to make a prediction on that line, you need to say Okay, well, I know that at the point where I am right now.
Faculty Office Hours: Where the demand is whatever it is.
Faculty Office Hours: We can look up in the table the demand is 6.2916.
Faculty Office Hours: That, I know that my objective value is the one that's computed as the as the optimal objective value and if I start to change that if I increase the demand, then I expect that the net profit is going to go up.
Faculty Office Hours: Right, because the slope is positive.
Faculty Office Hours: And if I decrease it, I expect that it's going to go down.
Faculty Office Hours: In order to predict how much it goes up or down I need to multiply the change.
Faculty Office Hours: In the limit, which is the demand times the dual value.
Faculty Office Hours: That makes sense because the dual value tells how much it will go up or down by a if you change it by one one unit.
Fritz, Joanna: Yes, okay.
Faculty Office Hours: Please one unit corresponds to one batch.
Faculty Office Hours: So what how much would it change if you if you decrease it by 10%.
Fritz, Joanna: Be 9.8 to.
Faculty Office Hours: Know i'm just asking how much how much change the demand change that went down by 10%.
Fritz, Joanna: And just if the dark or so.
Faculty Office Hours: what's the demand for dark you probably got that table hanging around up there somewhere let's see probably up above.
Fritz, Joanna: right here okay.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, so what if that went down by 10% how much would it go down by.
Fritz, Joanna: And Point six three.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, and so that's that's that's kind of the delta that we're looking for.
Faculty Office Hours: Right so so that the slope measures, the rise over the run.
Faculty Office Hours: So the run, then, is a change in the dark ALE and the rise is what we're going to predict.
Faculty Office Hours: So we're going to take the change and multiply it by the dual value.
Fritz, Joanna: Okay.
Faculty Office Hours: So the dual values work with absolute changes in the demand in this case.
Faculty Office Hours: So you got to go from percentage to absolute change and then take that to the dual value.
Fritz, Joanna: Okay.
Fritz, Joanna: Okay, so a nice sorry I just said, to confirm, so the slope and the rise is going to be what you're predicting.
Faculty Office Hours: yep so so like what you're predicting over Point six three is equal to the dual value Okay, so what you're trying to predict is going to be the dual value times the change.
Faculty Office Hours: Which is point six three.
Purkiss, David: X three times the i'm sorry for interjecting but i'm learning a lot.
Purkiss, David: Point six three times the dual value then.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah which is like nine something rather.
Faculty Office Hours: So if went down by a whole batch it would go down by nine whatever.
Faculty Office Hours: But it's not going to go down by a whole batch it's going to go down by about you know, two thirds of the batch.
Fritz, Joanna: Okay, so, then you take the point six three times this value.
uh huh.
Fritz, Joanna: Okay.
Faculty Office Hours: And if you if you're still not.
Faculty Office Hours: Solid on on on what's going on just draw a little graph.
Faculty Office Hours: You know just draw the.
Faculty Office Hours: draw the graph where you know that the dotted line is that the the value of the demand.
Faculty Office Hours: And what's what's on the y axis is the net profit and the slope of the line is equal to 92.8.
Fritz, Joanna: Okay.
Faculty Office Hours: i'm just kind of use that to convince yourself that you're doing the right thing.
Fritz, Joanna: Okay perfect okay i'll give that a try.
Faculty Office Hours: Sure yeah and that's that's utility of the dual values that that is that they tell you how the model would behave if you change some of the limits without you having to rerun it.
Faculty Office Hours: So you can kind of like think imagine yourself going into a meeting with like just the dual values written down on a piece of paper and then says someone says, well, what is this and you could say, well, I think this would be the result.
Faculty Office Hours: Instead of having to like go in there and type changes to your model and run it again, you can just kind of do a back of the envelope calculation.
Fritz, Joanna: Okay cool also I was wondering, and so, you said that like with small changes this gives you a pretty good idea is that probably relative to each problem you're solving or is there, like a rule of thumb.
Faculty Office Hours: Well, so the the The difficulty is is we don't know where we are in that interval how far it extends to the Left and the Right.
Faculty Office Hours: it's it's kind of a it's kind of a crapshoot so so small and large changes is not relative to the model it's just kind of common sense there's no there's no absolute you know I can't I can't tell you that 10% changes small and a 50% chance changes large.
Faculty Office Hours: You just you just kind of if you were changing it by 50% you'd say, well, that was definitely large right.
Faculty Office Hours: But 10% might be large too.
Fritz, Joanna: So.
Faculty Office Hours: You can't.
Faculty Office Hours: You can't easily calculate the how much you can push the right of the left.
Faculty Office Hours: it's not hard to code it up and run run a run a program to calculate that but it's not something that you can into it from how big the model is or you know how many constraints are or anything like that.
Fritz, Joanna: Okay, that makes sense, thank you.
Faculty Office Hours: So, David, what do you think about those commercials where they kind of try and glorify the roles that people play in the I think it's the army, the army has this recruitment commercial where they have like you know everyone has their superpower.
Faculty Office Hours: Like even the even the even the cook you know he's like slicing things that are flying through the air and.
Purkiss, David: I haven't seen that one yet.
Oh, and so.
Faculty Office Hours: They definitely put a lot of money into that commercial there's a lot of cgi going on in there, but he's still slice and potatoes, even though they're flying through the air.
Purkiss, David: I saw one recently that was pretty I thought pretty pretty motivational but I didn't see that one yet.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah I think they have like someone who does logistics someone who's in like food service and someone who's in communications, you know they'd like.
Faculty Office Hours: She they're not your traditional like warrior roles, but they're trying to make them seem really.
Faculty Office Hours: You know, like, I understand everybody's job is important, but just the same, I mean KPMG kp.
Purkiss, David: Well, I think i've gained what I can I appreciate it and i'll be in touch if I need more help Professor Thank you so much.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah no problem okay.
Purkiss, David: Take care.
Faculty Office Hours: All right.
Faculty Office Hours: hey travis how are you.
Travis Smith: doing well, how are you today.
Faculty Office Hours: i'm doing fine.
Faculty Office Hours: i'm good I just watch the game tonight, but.
Travis Smith: Be rooting for.
Faculty Office Hours: i'm rooting for Gonzaga I think it's I think it's it's their turn.
Travis Smith: I agree, I also just don't like baylor I work in higher ED and i'm tired of all the different laws that I have to worry about now because of them so.
Travis Smith: But yeah i'm hoping to what time does a game start.
Faculty Office Hours: I think it starts at eight something.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, I don't know if eight is like when the hype starts, you know it's always a.
Faculty Office Hours: lot of lot of fluff at the beginning.
Faculty Office Hours: What, what can I, what can I help you with.
Travis Smith: So really I am i'm kind of tripped up on question sex.
Travis Smith: And I get the question.
Travis Smith: And I will a little bit of background about me I didn't start coding until I entered into this program.
Travis Smith: No, I feel that i'm still pretty early on in my coding experience.
Travis Smith: um and I get what the questions asking I believe in that it's basically you're trying to do a massive change on the entire set which is grains and hops, but for some reason it's just not connecting i'm what i'm needing to do with that.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay.
Travis Smith: I know that just.
Faculty Office Hours: joined a shirt code.
i'm.
Travis Smith: i'm on a different I haven't actually with the screen up here because.
Travis Smith: Okay i'm used to the office hours going up here and then I could follow along on my laptop so.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, so let's say.
Faculty Office Hours: Would you know how to change just one of them.
Faculty Office Hours: Like let's say I pick a particular grain or hop out, would you know how to change that one.
Travis Smith: Yes, I can change the one individually.
Travis Smith: And I didn't want to go in and change each one.
Faculty Office Hours: sure.
Travis Smith: Sure, I thought that the point of it would be to change them all.
So.
Faculty Office Hours: So in prakash model we talked in the last lecture about some simple control flow.
Faculty Office Hours: mm hmm and the the main structure that we looked at was a kind of a loop, and it was this the statement is called it for statement.
Travis Smith: mm hmm.
Faculty Office Hours: And so, for some, one of the examples I used I calculated the distances between customers and factories, so I kind of looped over the customers and looped over the factories and then I calculated a distance between them.
Travis Smith: Okay, let me.
Faculty Office Hours: Just kind of similar to what you want to do in this instance, but what you've got is a little bit simpler.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, but the forest statement is how we do loops in prakash model okay.
Travis Smith: So the fourth segment is more okay.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah so so the syntax goes like four and then you want you want to figure out okay what set do I want to loop over so what's that would make sense in this context.
Travis Smith: So then, this context the set that's already been established, would be the grains and the hops.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, so, then in order to loop over that set you need what we call a local dummy parameter.
Faculty Office Hours: Alright, which is typically just a letter.
Travis Smith: Okay.
Faculty Office Hours: And you get to choose what that letter is.
Faculty Office Hours: Right you don't have to reveal to anyone else.
Faculty Office Hours: Until you have in your homework assignment anyway.
Faculty Office Hours: And let's let's say you choose K okay so you'd say for K in, and then the name of the set which be grains and hops.
Faculty Office Hours: And then, whatever statement comes next is executed for every value of K on the set and and that statement that you're going to have instead of changing an individual one changes that kind of generically using the name K.
Travis Smith: Okay.
I say.
Faculty Office Hours: So there's a couple of places, you can look for examples, one of them is when we looped over.
Faculty Office Hours: origins and destinations for factories and customers.
Faculty Office Hours: There was another one where we calculated.
Faculty Office Hours: We calculated bounds on the most.
Faculty Office Hours: of each product that we could make so the most tables, the most i'm sorry the most desks, the most chairs the most bookcases the most bed frames, that was a simpler loop and more similar to what you're looking for in this case.
Travis Smith: Okay.
Faculty Office Hours: So we did we just kind of looped over all the products, and then we did a calculation and that calculation referred to kind of generic product as described by the local dummy parameter.
Travis Smith: Okay, no, I think I get it now, I think I see.
Travis Smith: ya why.
Faculty Office Hours: it's referring almost every programming language has like these basic structures of loops and conditional statements it's just that the way the syntax is.
Faculty Office Hours: kind of rolls out is different for every language.
Faculty Office Hours: Right, but so kind of coding is is there's nothing like no one's inventing.
Faculty Office Hours: New coding structures it's all just.
Faculty Office Hours: it's all the recycling, the same stuff, although there are some very clever data structures that you can use.
Faculty Office Hours: very efficiently.
Travis Smith: i'll say that i've been able to pick up on SAS quicker than I was able to pick up on Python.
Travis Smith: But it was just the subtle differences like thinking of this as a loop, as opposed to a loop that's constantly going in operating if that makes sense, and so this This makes sense now, so thank you.
Faculty Office Hours: I know, absolutely no Python at all.
Faculty Office Hours: I think Python is a snake if that tells you.
Faculty Office Hours: I am I, when I code which I don't do a whole lot I would probably see but I code so infrequently it's mostly just using the modeling language.
Faculty Office Hours: You don't have to kind of go back to.
Faculty Office Hours: The basics and and figure it out, but I mean I do things that that are similar to coding like I use, you know late tech type setting language, and I can you know design web pages, but it's it's not it's kind of at a little bit higher level than the actual programming language.
Travis Smith: And you correct me if i'm wrong you do work for SAS correct.
Faculty Office Hours: i'm a contractor for SAS education.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay.
Faculty Office Hours: With rains that.
Faculty Office Hours: I don't get a business card.
Travis Smith: So what is, what is your opinion on jump.
Faculty Office Hours: On jump I don't know anything about it and I kind of I know what enterprise guide is but i've.
Faculty Office Hours: used it so little boy I it's kind of scares me to talk about it because I don't really I kind of know what it's designed to do, but I don't really know how to use it very, very well, I only learned enough SAS to do exactly what we're doing in this class.
gotcha.
Faculty Office Hours: Because that that's my that's my background is in I was a professor in optimization, so I would like you know devise these models, but didn't really have a good way to implement them.
Travis Smith: mm hmm.
Faculty Office Hours: Because when I was starting out working they really weren't modeling languages like this, you were basically you know writing a fortran program to construct a huge matrix to.
Faculty Office Hours: You know, go into some language and solve the problem and making even minor modifications to your model were just like it was it was awful because he had to like try and figure out how to change your program and hope they will compile and didn't work and you had no idea why.
Travis Smith: The air features So yes, yeah what so so.
Faculty Office Hours: Luckily, they had graduate students to do a lot of that work but.
Travis Smith: I see well yeah I think that really kind of solved kind of the the problem that I was having with it and thinking about it from that standpoint, so thank you.
Faculty Office Hours: that's That was really good and I understand that, like.
Faculty Office Hours: Not everyone is comfortable coding and that's that that's in part, why the project, the final project well project two is a group project.
Faculty Office Hours: Because you know part of it is going to entail coding, but then part of it is going to you know require people to think about you know, are the assumptions reasonable and things like that So hopefully it will you know, use the strengths of everyone in the group.
Travis Smith: that's great well, thank you, and hopefully your team wins tonight i'm hoping they do.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, what should be good anyway.
Travis Smith: yeah all right well have a good night, thank you.
Faculty Office Hours: See you later on right.
Coleman, Clay: evening.
Faculty Office Hours: hey.
Coleman, Clay: How are you.
Faculty Office Hours: i'm doing well, how are you doing.
Coleman, Clay: Good good it's a little dark in here me.
turn on.
Faculty Office Hours: Or you can just choose a lighter background right.
Coleman, Clay: yeah let me yeah that's totally.
Faculty Office Hours: Do you have questions about the homework.
Coleman, Clay: Yes, I do I do, yes, I do.
Coleman, Clay: Okay um.
Coleman, Clay: that's on it.
Coleman, Clay: I, so I emailed you about question three and your help didn't help figure I figure those out so that was the one about.
Coleman, Clay: The prediction the problem that I was running into as I was doing the overtime and I was you're using the wrong value and it didn't make sense.
Coleman, Clay: So I removed the overtime and then it started to make sense and everything else, like that.
Faculty Office Hours: So, so you kind of.
Faculty Office Hours: look like left to change in there or.
Coleman, Clay: yeah I left the change from the overtime portion and then, when I was trying to do the further for.
Coleman, Clay: problem I gotcha yeah it kind of threw a whole bunch of stuff.
Coleman, Clay: into not where it needed to be is it.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, I gotcha.
Coleman, Clay: number five I was trying to do.
See.
Faculty Office Hours: us share your screen.
Coleman, Clay: Yes, Sir, are you pull.
Coleman, Clay: up.
Coleman, Clay: So if I look up here at you, I have another monitor over here so.
Faculty Office Hours: That makes me feel great.
Coleman, Clay: So.
Coleman, Clay: How are you doing this evening.
Faculty Office Hours: i'm doing fine good.
Coleman, Clay: it's been a long day.
No.
Coleman, Clay: All right, so I wouldn't actually pull I got really confused, so I went and pulled the original one and tried to go back to where things were before too long.
Coleman, Clay: So there was a question where it said we needed to set the demand conch demand COM constraints to zero.
Faculty Office Hours: rather simple limits.
Coleman, Clay: Okay, the limits.
Coleman, Clay: Okay, and that's what I was trying like I.
Coleman, Clay: tried sending it to zero, I did this, but I don't I know that that's not what you were specifically looking for, because all that does is it allows you to run it and gives you.
Coleman, Clay: It gives you the dual values but they're in the 3000 somewhat range over here and that didn't make a whole lot of sense to me.
Faculty Office Hours: Well, so see what you're trying to do is verify that the values in that table are the same ones that are printed out in the homework assignment right.
Coleman, Clay: mm hmm.
Coleman, Clay: Oh, oh hey look at that.
Coleman, Clay: I should really level.
Faculty Office Hours: they're on the order of 3000 it may seem like a lot of money, but the batch of beer is is a lot of beer.
Coleman, Clay: So, so if I was just setting this to zero exactly like this.
Coleman, Clay: Oh no that's not working, which one.
Coleman, Clay: But it's not like.
Coleman, Clay: Oh yeah that's me trying the for loop I haven't I haven't quite gotten that one figured out yet either, but i'm getting there.
OK.
Coleman, Clay: OK so.
Faculty Office Hours: Now I will tell you did something a little bit different this time than you did before, in that, before you had less than or equal to zero, and now you have equal to zero.
Faculty Office Hours: Correct it prints the same thing, but I think it might be easier to interpret if you put less than or equal to zero.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, so but are those values the same.
Coleman, Clay: They look yeah they yeah they do.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, so that then that then that's that's half the battle right there and then the other part, is why.
Coleman, Clay: Right.
Coleman, Clay: Okay.
Faculty Office Hours: So.
Coleman, Clay: let's all about, I mean the reason okay so here's my thing I was seeing these numbers and I was trying to figure out where I would even compare him to I didn't even think to go to the front page that makes a lot more sense now I should have read all the instructions.
Coleman, Clay: Okay um.
Coleman, Clay: So I mean the reason why is you're not producing any at all, and this is this is what's left over, you know exactly what you can produce out of each of them with the individual things that you're not so you're not producing any so you know exactly.
Coleman, Clay: If if all of them are allowed to take as many resources as possible, that would be your dual value right.
Faculty Office Hours: Well let's let's um so so let's let's let's go back and look at the constraints.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, in the model, so what the dual value tells you is how the objective value would change if you change the limit by one.
Coleman, Clay: Okay.
Faculty Office Hours: So let's let's pick your favorite product dark ale.
Coleman, Clay: yeah let's.
Faculty Office Hours: let's say we increase the limit for dark El to one.
Faculty Office Hours: And then, and then we solved it what what would this solution look like.
Faculty Office Hours: How a change.
Coleman, Clay: If you if you.
Coleman, Clay: Say you're saying you have to produce it least one dark ale.
Faculty Office Hours: Well, if if if all the limits are zero that means you produce nothing right.
Faculty Office Hours: right if one of them changes to one then since it's less than or equal to, then you can produce one.
Okay.
Faculty Office Hours: But of course if you're trying to maximize your net profit there's no reason why you wouldn't.
Faculty Office Hours: right because because all of all of them are going to generate profit, if you make them.
Coleman, Clay: Of course yeah.
Faculty Office Hours: I mean you're not going to run out of any resources because.
Faculty Office Hours: I mean you've seen this solution before we made the changes, you can you can produce a lot of batches of various them so.
Faculty Office Hours: How much would How would how How would you what would you expect to happen to the net profit, if you produce one unit of dark ale one batch.
Coleman, Clay: It would be, it would be one specific number.
Coleman, Clay: Like it would be you would use everything you could to make that one.
Faculty Office Hours: Well there's a recipe for it.
Coleman, Clay: Right so yeah yeah so it would be, it would be the amount, so the number of products time that cost like how many you could make times the cost of that item.
Faculty Office Hours: Whether it would be the it would be the revenue.
Faculty Office Hours: minus all the costs from the recipe.
Faculty Office Hours: And minus that fixed cost of 7500 but what would that be calculating.
Coleman, Clay: I guess.
Faculty Office Hours: Let me try.
Faculty Office Hours: to another way.
Faculty Office Hours: OK OK, so in the in the furniture making problem.
Faculty Office Hours: If you think of like desks there's a selling price for desks and there's how much of each resource has to go into making a desk and there is the cost of each resource.
Faculty Office Hours: But the objective function coefficient for desks is the net profit of desks.
Coleman, Clay: Okay.
Faculty Office Hours: And it's like I don't know like 12 or 13, so I think it's 13 So if you made one desk.
Faculty Office Hours: What would your net profit be well, it would be that it would be the net profit of desks right the per unit net profit of desks.
Coleman, Clay: Right.
Faculty Office Hours: So if you if you produced one batch of dark ale what would your net profit be.
Coleman, Clay: The.
Coleman, Clay: The amount times the or the the cost of the items summed up, I mean it would be your your the value of your net profit.
Faculty Office Hours: Yes, and, and so it would be that it would be the the numbers that you're trying to generate right.
Coleman, Clay: Right correct.
Faculty Office Hours: So so i'm just trying to help you.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah explain why that's what the dual value is.
OK.
Coleman, Clay: OK, I think I understand it, a little more I think i'm gonna have to re listen to the lecture a little bit more as well and go back to that the values were a little a little not over my head, but it's gonna take some time to.
Coleman, Clay: yeah if you go back my Ryan about that concept.
Faculty Office Hours: If you go back a couple of slides to where that boxes, the very first box that we had.
Faculty Office Hours: it's like almost like a way, maybe one more yeah that one.
Faculty Office Hours: That that's the definition that and then you're basically applying that definition to this particular situation.
Faculty Office Hours: that's that that's that's that's all it's asking for in terms of an explanation okay.
Coleman, Clay: Okay.
Faculty Office Hours: It looks like you're on the right track with euro the loop there.
Coleman, Clay: yeah my for loop.
yeah.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah so So what do you see when you do that.
Coleman, Clay: I think.
Faculty Office Hours: A list.
Coleman, Clay: of names, I think I get an error, at this point because it doesn't it can't read, I mean.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay well let's just go ahead and try it and see what happens.
Okay.
Coleman, Clay: I think yeah yeah the log says, I doesn't the symbol is unknown.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, so.
Faculty Office Hours: let's see.
Faculty Office Hours: let's try try the following put it in parentheses and see what happens.
Faculty Office Hours: Though I think I see what what the problem is so here.
Coleman, Clay: yeah i've got too many yeah.
Coleman, Clay: i've got too many semicolon.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah that's right now.
Coleman, Clay: Okay.
Faculty Office Hours: So there you go so that that's that's working for you so so what it did in the beginning, was it looped over an l statement.
Coleman, Clay: mm hmm.
Faculty Office Hours: And then.
Coleman, Clay: It tried to print it because it didn't and I had nothing name to it.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah yeah that's that's pretty much what it is, you know, the only time you for for statement, the only time you're going to have a semi colon is there, if you have a do block.
Coleman, Clay: Right.
Faculty Office Hours: Which is like a do semi colon and then it goes to.
Faculty Office Hours: Something else.
Coleman, Clay: But in that kind of like.
Coleman, Clay: Is that kind of like a do while and.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah there's it's it's see like do while and do until are all looping over kind of like a condition and usually it's.
Faculty Office Hours: Like it like you're promoting something by one.
Faculty Office Hours: But, but the forest statement lets you loop over kind of a richer index set.
Faculty Office Hours: In this case, it's a set of strings.
Coleman, Clay: Right and we just want to increase the I so we also need to tie that back to the cost table, though.
Faculty Office Hours: Well, you need to you know you're going to have an assignment statement that changes the costs in there.
Coleman, Clay: Correct in this one right so it's going to be like a.
Coleman, Clay: Cost of resources.
Faculty Office Hours: So now, when you have a parameter Ray it's just a square bracket Nick because now you now you actually in whenever statement you have you're going to refer to I.
Faculty Office Hours: Because I is going to loop over the grains and hops so.
Coleman, Clay: So I, so the cost of Ai.
Faculty Office Hours: And what do you want to do to it.
Coleman, Clay: I want to multiply I want to set that equal to I times point.
Coleman, Clay: Well, I times so cost of high.
Coleman, Clay: You want to increase it by 10% so.
Coleman, Clay: You could do.
Coleman, Clay: Papa Papa Papa times point.
Coleman, Clay: Zero and then add it to.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah it can be any expression that that's fine.
Faculty Office Hours: So, but you see that as you go through the loop you're.
Faculty Office Hours: In instead of resources or whatever or hops and grains you're using the index now.
Faculty Office Hours: And that index is, in turn, going to take the values of all the things that you want to change.
Coleman, Clay: So can I i'm printed the cost table again, so I should be able to see.
Coleman, Clay: here.
Coleman, Clay: um.
Faculty Office Hours: So where did you printed.
It.
Coleman, Clay: Here, and I should I could print it again before here right.
Coleman, Clay: yeah and then compare the two.
yeah.
Coleman, Clay: So.
Coleman, Clay: So my cost table 385 mouse it's the exact same for 40462.
Coleman, Clay: Unless.
Faculty Office Hours: See printed the cost and then the force statement and then you pretty cost again.
Coleman, Clay: So if I print costs here again.
Faculty Office Hours: Well, it shouldn't it should be pretty.
Coleman, Clay: yeah that way they're just a little closer to each other.
Coleman, Clay: And then i'll have to scroll a whole bunch.
sure.
Coleman, Clay: So oh yeah okay.
Coleman, Clay: I take a picture of the wrong 135 and three five.
Faculty Office Hours: And then maybe you should check, one of the ones it's not supposed to.
Coleman, Clay: Bring Labor should not change at all.
Coleman, Clay: And then neither should this 13737.
Faculty Office Hours: seems to work in okay.
Coleman, Clay: yeah.
Coleman, Clay: I was it everything else, I was able to figure out, I think.
Coleman, Clay: That wasn't near as near as hard as I thought it was going to be on this one.
Coleman, Clay: i'm going to get rid of all these.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah it is it's really just a matter of getting the syntax.
Coleman, Clay: yeah and i've done a lot of programming before this one just is a spit out there.
Faculty Office Hours: What when it will really sink in is, if you try and solve a problem that you're actually interested in.
Coleman, Clay: Oh yeah.
Faculty Office Hours: As opposed to making furniture.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah because you kind of know the setting and it's just the syntax that's the extra instead of trying to learn the setting and remember everything and then.
Coleman, Clay: ya know I remember when I first tried to sit down and learn Python like the hardest thing to do was just to sit down and learn.
Coleman, Clay: Just how everything worked, but when I actually started having to go like actually build tools and things like that it just made so much more sense and to have that project to work on was super important but.
Coleman, Clay: yeah I mean everything else was, I mean I had some issues like I said because I did I left, I tried to do a.
Coleman, Clay: I tried to leave where was it.
Faculty Office Hours: So it looks like he might actually be getting a little bit ahead of yourself in the sense that.
Faculty Office Hours: you're actually changing the model to to see how much overtime, you would use.
Faculty Office Hours: Which is actually a question i'm going to ask in the next assignment.
Coleman, Clay: I thought that was on I thought that was question number one.
Faculty Office Hours: See.
Coleman, Clay: No that's not question number one question number two.
Coleman, Clay: If additional overtime of ring was available per hour, what would using additional overtime.
Faculty Office Hours: So in this case, you can.
Faculty Office Hours: drop the question just using the dual values.
Coleman, Clay: Okay yeah.
Faculty Office Hours: So then, but but a follow up question is okay, well then, how much.
Coleman, Clay: Oh yeah I did I did how much.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah and how much question you might want to just hold on to because that's going to be in a subsequent.
Faculty Office Hours: homework assignment.
Coleman, Clay: So I did yes and 5000 I was just so I looked at I don't remember which one it was, but there was another one that I pulled this.
Faculty Office Hours: You probably looked at it, I think you got it at the.
Faculty Office Hours: At the end of the slides from this week that we didn't get to in class.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, and so I kind of I was hopeful that we would have time but I didn't I didn't turn out that way.
Faculty Office Hours: mm hmm so I didn't have that in the exercises that was going to be in the next one, so yeah so that that's fine but try try and see try and.
Faculty Office Hours: Try and see if you can you can argue just on the basis of the dual values.
Coleman, Clay: Okay.
Faculty Office Hours: In the same way that.
Faculty Office Hours: When I looked at the furniture making problem that I said okay.
Faculty Office Hours: If I have to do, time and a half.
Faculty Office Hours: Would I do it or not, and the answer, there was no because the dual value was kind of dinky.
Coleman, Clay: This one is 36.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah so it's question you know what, what do you want to compare that to.
Faculty Office Hours: What if you go back and look at the example earlier in the lecture that should.
Coleman, Clay: Right and that that was the yeah that's don't say.
Coleman, Clay: Oh.
Faculty Office Hours: I think you got a little, but.
Faculty Office Hours: One one more maybe there you go.
Coleman, Clay: Yes, one.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah so it's basically the exact same question.
Faculty Office Hours: it's just that it's it's in a different model and the numbers are different but it's basically the same you know time and a half.
Faculty Office Hours: So it's a they get paid a little bit better in the in the brewing problem.
yeah.
Coleman, Clay: yeah so basically you're you're subtracting, so this is your 36 but the other one is 18 so it's the difference between the two.
Faculty Office Hours: uh well let's see so so so the the.
Coleman, Clay: This would be your one, so your difference between the two is what a.
Coleman, Clay: Here you're looking at nine.
Coleman, Clay: So you're nine would be this value.
Coleman, Clay: And you're you're 36 would be this value so 36 minus nine would still be positive.
Faculty Office Hours: Look look a little bit better than negative six.
Coleman, Clay: yeah.
Coleman, Clay: A little bit okay well i'll update my question I I was just assuming to go and do it in the program but.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah like well like I said to you just hold on to that one because it'll.
Faculty Office Hours: it'll save you having to do it again the next week.
Coleman, Clay: yeah very cool well, I appreciate your help, I sorry I mean where was I, the only one that did you have more people, I hope, or.
Faculty Office Hours: Have you just oh yeah yeah.
Coleman, Clay: Okay, good good good, well, I won't keep you past your I guess eight o'clock is your cut off time sorry i'm so late.
Coleman, Clay: But I truly appreciate it.
Faculty Office Hours: i'll just take a pound of flesh.
Coleman, Clay: it's definitely it's definitely been interesting I would I wish.
Coleman, Clay: This was sooner in the program but you know.
Faculty Office Hours: we'll just tell her that.
Coleman, Clay: OK, I will make sure to tell you that.
Coleman, Clay: it's it's it's kind of hard here at the end.
Coleman, Clay: You know, with caps out like I saw I haven't presented my capstone.
Faculty Office Hours: So before before last year we'd always taught it in the fall and so that was it was a little easier, because then you know the you're less busy.
Faculty Office Hours: there's less interruptions The only difficulty with that is that people who work in retail and just get killed from thanksgiving to Christmas so yeah.
Coleman, Clay: yeah like luckily.
Coleman, Clay: i'm taking the pressure the programming class and i'm i'm much more i'm glad i'm not taking the financial analysis class I look at their their chat every once in a while that we have like a group chat and man.
Coleman, Clay: They don't sound too happy with that class, so I said sounded like it's rough but.
But yeah.
Coleman, Clay: But if we'd had this a little sure I feel like I would I would maybe learn more and be more incentivized to.
Faculty Office Hours: be able to utilize it more.
Coleman, Clay: That to that too.
Coleman, Clay: But also, maybe internalize more of it right now.
Coleman, Clay: Not, not to say that I have seen here is, but I mean we're.
Faculty Office Hours: All getting pulled in too many directions.
Coleman, Clay: yeah yeah I mean we're a whole 29 days from ending this program so.
Coleman, Clay: mm hmm but it's been definitely been a good one.
Okay.
Faculty Office Hours: So.
Coleman, Clay: Thank you.
Faculty Office Hours: Where are you Where are you based.
Coleman, Clay: i'm in San Antonio.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay, yes, sir.
Coleman, Clay: i'm a full time.
Coleman, Clay: i'm a database administrator and business analyst for energy resources it's a little company I don't know if you've ever heard of them.
Faculty Office Hours: I haven't no.
Coleman, Clay: yeah they're.
Coleman, Clay: MP and Texas.
Coleman, Clay: But.
Coleman, Clay: i'm a.
Coleman, Clay: We call this part of the distance learning group, so I never go to campus.
Coleman, Clay: I always sit here in the same room and.
Coleman, Clay: Listen for six hours a week.
Faculty Office Hours: And you guess you have to miss the meals to.
Coleman, Clay: I missed the meals, yes i'm actually going to i'm gonna make one last trip to campus next week and I think i'll be there, Tuesday night.
Coleman, Clay: Yes, i'll be there, Tuesday night.
Faculty Office Hours: yeah for me, for me, when they have brisket that it makes the whole semester worthwhile.
Coleman, Clay: yeah no I never I got the meals, the first three days, and then I know that.
Nothing.
Coleman, Clay: But that's okay that's Okay, I get to I get to stay home.
Coleman, Clay: and not leave so it's great.
Coleman, Clay: But well I like I said I really appreciate it.
Coleman, Clay: Sure, and.
Coleman, Clay: Thank you yeah they helped a thumb saying.
Faculty Office Hours: Okay.
Coleman, Clay: Well i'm shorten my night quite a bit because I was going to bang my head against the wall for another couple hours.
Faculty Office Hours: Well, you can still do that just for you know pick pick a different reason.
Coleman, Clay: All work on my Python project.
Faculty Office Hours: All right, night.
Coleman, Clay: And I thank you.
Sir.